CakePHP 2.6.13, 2.7.11, 2.8.2, 3.0.17, 3.1.12, and 3.2.5 Released
=================================================================

The CakePHP core team is happy to announce the immediate availability of CakePHP
2.6.13, 2.7.11, 2.8.2, 3.0.17, 3.1.12, and 3.2.5. These releases contain security
fixes. 3.2.5 and 2.8.2 also contain bugfixes.

Security Fixes
--------------

These releases contain fixes for arbitrary address spoofing when using the
``clientIp()`` method of the request object. Previously, this method would use
the ``HTTP_CLIENT_IP`` header which can be spoofed easily. If you are using this
method as a source of trusted data we recommend you upgrade. We'd like to thank
the independent security researcher Dawid Golunski for discovering this
vulnerability in CakePHP which was reported to us by Beyond Security's
SecuriTeam Secure Disclosure program.

Bugfixes in 2.8.2
-----------------

* Notice errors in ``request->referer()`` in PHP7 with no referrer were fixed.
  (@phlyper)
* Email logs now include the subject and to headers when using the
  ``MailTransport`` (@garas)
* Updated API documentation (@xhs345)
* A regression in DbAcl introduced in 2.8.1 was fixed around how inherited
  permissions and explicit deny permissions interacted (@markstory)

Bugfixes in 3.2.5
-----------------

* Postgres schema reflection performs better on large databases. (@donkeyx,
  @markstory)
* Xcache cache engine can now store objects (@SmiSoft)
* Malformed HTTP Range headers no longer emit warnings. (@markstory)
* Improved API documentation (@markstory, @curtisgibby, @dereuromark)
* The ``__xn`` and ``__dxn`` functions now correctly use plural forms.
  (@chinpei215)


New Features in 3.2.5
---------------------

* ``assertCookieNotSet`` was added to ``IntegrationTestCase``. (@lorenzo)
* The 'obj' fetch type was added to ``PDOStatement``. (@davalb)

As always, a huge thanks to all the community members that helped make this
release happen by reporting issues and sending pull requests.

Download a `packaged release on github
<https://github.com/cakephp/cakephp/releases>`_.

.. author:: markstory
.. categories:: release, news, security
.. tags:: release, security
