CakePHP 2.2.3 released
======================

The CakePHP core team is proud to announce the immediate availability
of CakePHP 2.2.3

The CakePHP core team is proud to announce the immediate availability
of CakePHP 2.2.3[1]. This is a bugfix/maintenance release for the
2.2.x release branch. Since the release of 2.2.2, there have been 65
commits, and over 70 tickets closed. A short list of the changes you
can expect are:

+ virtualField quoting around `-` was improved again.
+ Errors for SchemaShell and missing schema files/classes were
  improved.
+ The URL `/0` is now properly handled.
+ Model options are now properly forwarded in
  `PaginatorHelper::_pagingLinks()`.
+ Required field detection in FormHelper was improved.
+ Permission denied redirects in AuthComponent are now relative to the
  application host.
+ Multiple select boxes now work better with SecurityComponent.
+ Radio buttons with falsey values now select correctly.
+ Exceptions raised in AppController::beforeRender() no longer cause
  infinite loops.
+ CakeEmail's autogenerated Message-ID headers no longer contain port
  numbers.
+ Multiple extensions in layouts that contain elements, now works as
  expected.
+ Issues where scoped loggers would recieve all messages of matching
  types was corrected.

A huge thanks to all involved in terms of both contributions through
commits, tickets, documentation edits, and those whom have otherwise
contributed to the framework. Without you there would be no CakePHP.
Download a packaged release [2]


Links
~~~~~

+ [1] `http://cakephp.org/changelogs/2.2.3`_
+ [2] `http://github.com/cakephp/cakephp/tags`_




.. _http://github.com/cakephp/cakephp/tags: http://github.com/cakephp/cakephp/tags
.. _http://cakephp.org/changelogs/2.2.3: http://cakephp.org/changelogs/2.2.3

.. author:: markstory
.. categories:: news
.. tags:: release,CakePHP,news,News

